---
title: "Entering 2026"
date: 2026-01-01T12:50:03-0800
draft: false
description: ""
tags: []
categories: []
ShowToc: true
TocOpen: false
ShowReadingTime: true
ShowBreadCrumbs: true
ShowPostNavLinks: true
ShowWordCount: true
---

This video very much captures how I'm entering 2026.

I considered turning back like 10 times while I was walking from my house to the lake.

Then I asked - what would Goggins say to that?

It was a mini Mosogi.

I'm writing a short blog post about it.

It's one of the least simple ones to date, and requires some explanation.

https://www.depthnotwidth.com/the-mini-misogi-making-your-life-memorable-one-month-at-a-time/

{{< rawhtml >}}
<video controls width="100%">

  <source src="static/videos/posts/entering-2026/entering_2026.mov" type="video/mp4">
</video>
{{< /rawhtml >}}

## Rough Notes

- Companies
- CTO
- My companies
- Agency
- Surrounded by my goal
- Location, canada vs US
- Not forever
- Doing something not many people can, but why?
- I change this semi-often, but the ones I've commited to for a long time never worked out.
- I stray away from the crowd
- I build my own conviction
- I'm okay being on a lonely road
- Pick the one thing I want to succeed this year

## Meta Reflection

1. I'm by no means old, but I'm not a kid either. I'm at my prime.
2. I'm not lonely or alone, but I am single.
3. It's not dark or rainy, but it is cloudy.
4. I feel strong, but I'm not invincible.
5. An external calm is surrounded by freezing water and small ripples.
6. I can endure pain, I don't like it, but I can't live without it.
7. I'm clear know what I don't want, but I'm not clear on what I do want.
8. It is a very satisfying experience, but it is just one point in time.
9. I dreaded and considered turning back 10 times on my way to the lake, but I did not.
10. TODO

## Concrete Reflection

1. I was the oldest person at yesterday's new year's party. I'm 33.
2. I enjoy my lifestyle, and am comfortable living on my own, but I also want to build a family and have kids.
3. I have a ton of professional opportunities, but there's isn't one that really shined through.
4. I feel like I can do anything, but not everything.
5. I'm calm on the outside, a whirlwind on the inside, but I've learnt to control and harness it.
6. I keep trying to work on complex paradigm shifts, but don't stop trying when they don't work out.
7. I'm very grateful, content, and fulfilled on a day-to-day basis, but not satisifed over the longer-term time horizon.
8. I push into the pain, get to the other side, and then ask: "What now?"
9. TODO

## Additional details

1. I have opportunities to explore research roles at companies like OpenAI or CTO roles at smaller companies, but I wouldn't be fulfilled if I'm not bringing my vision to life, building a team that mirrors my culture, applying my taste, and pushing my own boundaries.
2. TODO

## What am I doing about it

1. Making the most out of every day in every aspect of life as time passes: physical, mental, emotional, financial, and spiritual. Exercise, meditation, planning, doing, reading, writing, working, learning, meeting new people, going on small adventures, attending events, winding down with TV, reflecting, and sleeping.
2. TODO
